all right so as I mentioned in the last
video we've now got a nice group of
buttons that we can drag around it's a
single object and what we need to do now
is add the IDS of the remaining six
buttons to be changed and also their tax
change to show the symbol for the
operation that they're going to be
performing in our calculator app so I'm
going to start now with down here button
the 11 will make that the divide button
so we'll call it button divided and the
text for that will be a slash the next
one a button multiply multiply and
that's going to be an S tricks or a star
next we want a button miners to perform
a subtraction button - and that'll be a
- for the minus sign we want a button
dot so we can enter decimal numbers so
that's going to be I mean numbers with
decimal point or what's the decimal
point so we can add numbers after the
decimal point so it's button dot and the
text for that will be a period or the
dot and then we want also a button for
equals button equals and that's going to
be equals and I miss one app I need a
button plus two of course with
everything else but button plus size for
dish and obviously it's a button plus
and that will be the plus sign okay so
there's all their buttons all right now
in terms of locations what we haven't
done yet is we haven't moved button zero
so let's just move button 0 first no
button zeros constrained at the top to
the bottom of button one so let's start
with that let's turn it to button one
and it's lifted it should be constrained
to the left edge of button once we've
done for the other numbers on this
so let's go ahead and do that and then
we also want to make sure the margins
set to eight which it is there which is
wrong here because we want to move it
over so we set that to zero so that fits
nicely sit snug there all right so next
one is the button dot that goes to the
right of button zero that's this one
here I'm gonna select that let's go
ahead and place that here we need to do
the same baseline constraint that we've
been doing okay and then we need a the
equal sign is next equals this going to
be to the right of that and then plus
will be to the right of that so let's
say that equals first I'll strain it to
the left set it up for the baseline and
constrain it to the base line like so
and we want another one there as I
mentioned the plus I'm gonna click on
the plus constrain it to the left and
then also do the baseline constraint to
move it up like so all right so this
point we've got to three other buttons
that we need to set now we've got button
devoid let's do that one first that goes
to the right of the number nine so
button divide but the constraint on the
left there and then also making sure
it's still selected do the same for the
baseline like so and next we've got the
multiply let's do that that's going to
be to the right of six strain it to the
right of right edge of six and do the
baseline and move it to the baseline for
six and the last one let's turn it to
the right of 3 this is the minus sign
and we'll do a baseline constraint as
well to the three all right so that's
all 16 buttons that have now been
completed now there was a frustrating
issue with previous versions of Android
giulio but fortunately it seems to have
gone it's worth mentioning my partly in
case it comes back and partly because it
involves a couple of attributes that you
should know about so I'm going to select
one of the buttons in my case I'm going
to select the minus button that was
already selected because that was the
last one we moved we want to expand out
the attribute you see and we click on
the expanded expanded data attributes
and let's scroll down over here until we
get to min height and min width now by
default min width used to be set to 88
DP and that caused the width to keep
resetting if you tried to make the
button narrow but fortunately you can
see here that it's not set that's no
longer the case but if you happen to get
problems with widgets not resizing or
resetting after you resize them then
check out these min width and min height
in the extended attributes to make sure
they're not causing your problems and to
a lesser extent keep an eye on the max
width and max Heights attributes as well
all right so I'm not going to change the
width of the buttons manually because
the text they contain could be resized
independently now users can select large
fonts for the display which could make
the text look a bit ugly if the buttons
don't resize as well so we want to leave
our buttons set to wrap content now you
could change the size to fixed and size
them to 48dp say but bear in mind that
font size isn't under your complete
control so let Brep underscore content
use a smaller button size where possible
you want to change the min width
attribute to 48 DP so I'm going to go
ahead and do that and again I've got
everything selected here and I've got my
- on selected here so I'm going to come
over here to min width and I'm going to
change that now to 48 DP and press Enter
and you can see the buttons move that
all the size down there by doing that
now it would get a bit tedious changing
each button individually but what we can
do is select them all and change them
all in one go
now I've already shown you how to select
all the buttons by dragging over them
another way which can be useful if
you've got other widgets in the way is
the right-click
- over here and then I can actually
choose select and then same select type
select select the same type and you can
see this automatically selected all the
other buttons then we're going to change
changing the min width attribute now
we'll sell it for all buttons but what's
happened to min width you can see it's
actually disappeared seems to have
vanished from the attributes
well Android studio tries to be helpful
and once you've changed an attribute it
moves up to the top of the attributes
list now this list is sort of
alphabetical but arranged in two
sections now attributes that G changed
appeared alphabetically at the top then
the list silence then the list starts
again alphabetically with all the other
widgets so if we scroll back up to the
top now because here we've got our min
width over here and we're gonna go over
here and change that to 48 DP press
enter and you can see all butts and
they'll been resized and the other thing
you want to do is just make sure that
the layout width and layout height is
set to wrap content before run selecting
them you can see here that that is the
case now if you're setting these same
properties for many widgets at once what
I've shown you here makes life a lot
easier now not all properties can be set
for groups of widgets at the same time
so although this is a useful feature
there are times when you just have to
set each one individually alright so
just click in anywhere now any blank
part of the layout - and select the
buttons now before I move on to add the
Forgotten widgets let's have another
look at the component tree over to the
left now although it generally makes no
difference what all of the pages the
widgets appear in here you can put them
in a more logical order reflecting their
position on the screen by dragging them
up and down to sort them into an order
that makes sense and it'll also be easy
to find the individual digit buttons to
select them if they appear in numerical
order and they should probably be all
together so I'm going to drag the
widgets around now just to reorder them
we've got button 0 I'm going to move
button 1 up here we've got buttons now 0
through 9
well if the result text still at the top
then we've got divide multiply miners
let's actually move plus up and then
we've got Donna Nichols now this HAP the
author makes no difference to the way
the layout works but it does reflect the
order that the widgets appear in the XML
now if you're using nested layouts then
make sure you don't drag a widget out of
its container now that may not mean much
now but I will be looking at nested
layouts later also be careful with
linear layouts because the ordering of
the widgets does matter then but we're
going to be looking at nested layouts
and linear layouts later in the course
alright so time to suddenly remember
that we need two more widgets a text
view to display the operation and an
edit text to allow new numbers to be
entered now although you could drag the
buttons out of the way to make more room
there's really no need what I'm going to
do is place a textview in a side number
enter text in a space below the buttons
then delete the vertical constraint on
button 7 and while I've still got plenty
of room on the screen then I'm going to
set the left edge of the textview to be
constrained to the left edge of the
layout and it's right edge to the left
edge of the inner text let's actually
start doing some of this so we'll start
with the textview or drag one out and
just put it down the bottom of the
screen here anywhere doesn't really
matter and we always have what that side
number and it takes me talked about as
well okay just put it down there so
again I'm going to set the left edge of
the textview to be constrained to the
left edge of the layout so let's start
with that and the right edge to be to
the left edge of the edit text
I'm also going to constrain the top edge
of the textview to the top of the new
edit text the top edge is going to be
constrained to the top edge of the other
text on the new edit text that is I'm
going to click on that you can see
that's moved down there and then we want
to change the right edge and what to
involve me moving this fractionally over
here so we can see what we're doing so
at the right edge of the text view now
to be constrained to the left edge of
the edit text and you can see I've
already done that so that's setup so if
I come back and have a look up here in
the inspector the textview we know we've
got a constraint on the left to the left
edge of the layout to the right of the
or the right constraint from the
textview is no constraint to the left of
the edit view and the top is also
constrained to the top of the new edit
text as well now we could have probably
we should probably be using the baseline
constraint here but I've used top so
that I can show you another way to
change it later alright so here now
constrain the top of this new edit text
to the bottom of the first one we added
called result and then constrain the top
of button 7 to the bottom of this one so
what I constrain the top of the new edit
text to the bottom of the old one you
can see when I do that the text view and
edit text combination obscure button 7
that makes it difficult to change the
constraint on button 7 certainly
possible but what I'm going to do is do
it the other way around so I'm going to
undo that change using command Z or a
may Accords controls yet on a PC you can
see that and does the last one now what
we'll do instead is we'll delete the top
constraint on button 7 and go over here
to button 7 select it and delete the
constraint then what we're going to do
is drag a constraint from the top of
button 7 to the bottom of the new tip of
the new where edit text I'm going to do
that you can see then that the entire
square of buttons moves us a single
block and that's because they're all
ultimately constrained to button 7 so
that's pretty cool
whatever we constrain button 7 to the
rest of the buttons will follow okay
half of them probably in my case you can
see our 4
I probably off the bottom of the screen
but don't worry about that what we can
now do is drag a constraint from the top
of this new edit text to the bottom of
the result edit text and everything
should come back right and you can see
that it's come back it should be obvious
by now that you don't position widgets
on the screen by dragging them into
place you do it by creating constraints
and it's these constraints that
determine where the widgets will appear
when you run the app now I should really
have a site have a side more informative
IDs to these two new widgets first but I
wanted to show you what happens when you
change an ID once the widgets used by
something else either by constraints in
the layout or in code so I'm going to
first start with this new ID which I've
already got selected but clicking if
it's not selected I'm going to change
the ID that a new number new number and
when I press ENTER I get a dialog asking
if I want to update all XML references
and our references job of our field
references now normally announcer yes to
this anywhere the old ID was used it
would be automatically updated with the
new ID now that's pretty cool so why
wouldn't you want to answer yes well if
we had already created the code that
used this layout it would be referring
to buttons with the buttons like button
two or button nine now if you decided to
redesign this layout by deleting all the
buttons and recreating them but Noren
may be assigned to the divide button but
when you rename it you don't want
Android studio updating the references
to button knowing in your code to use a
new button ID button divided so it's a
useful feature but it's also handy to be
able to prevent it from updating
everything now of course I could have
have also avoided any potential problem
by not using names like button 9 I could
I should probably have abbreviated
button - BTN or something like that so
that there was no chance of a conflict
with the default IDs they endured studio
assigns that's worth bearing in - it can
cause you problems so don't start the
idea of a widget with the widget name so
I'm going to answer yes to this dialog
then I'm going to go over to the new
text view we're going to change that the
idea that to operation press into that
now we're almost done at this point and
like the new number edit text widget to
be centered in the layout and the
operation text view to be centered in
the space to its left
once that's done it'll look I'll look at
moving all the buttons of right so that
they're centered in the layout but first
you should really deal with those two
text widgets do I say you well that
sounds like a mini challenge all right
so they admit the challenge here is to
change the horizontal size of the new
number widget to rap underscore content
if it isn't already so that you can
expand to store the numbers that are
rented then set constraints to Center it
horizontally in the layout when that's
done Center the operation textview in
the space to the left of new number its
size both horizontally and vertically
should be set to wrap on a scroll
content so that's the challenge I'm
going to end the video here so and see
how you go with that and in the next
video I'll go through and post a
solution see you in the next video